72531-NEW Delete/Redistribute Install with Native Helm Chart (#1042)
replicatedhq/replicated-docs: docs/vendor/helm-release.mdx

import RepositoryCicdNote from "../partials/releases/_repository-cicd-note.mdx"
import PromoteReleaseUi from "../partials/releases/_promote-release-ui.mdx"
import PrereqsCli from "../partials/releases/_prereqs-cli.mdx"
import HelmOptions from "../partials/helm/_helm-options.mdx"

# Creating Releases with Helm Charts

This topic describes how to add a Helm chart to a release in the Replicated vendor portal or the replicated CLI. Adding a Helm chart to a release is useful if you want to distribute a Kubernetes application with Replicated that is already packaged using Helm.

## About Releasing with Helm Charts

> You can add one or more Helm charts to a release in the vendor portal by uploading each Helm chart as a `.tgz` package. This allows you to use Replicated to distribute applications that are packaged with Helm. The procedures in this topic apply to native Helm installations (recommended) and Replicated Helm installations. For more information, see [About Deploying with Helm](helm-overview).

Reviewer: I think .tgz file is more standard wording.

What do you think about the "in part or in whole" part, since it doesn't have to be all or nothing?
```suggestion
You can add one or more Helm charts to a release in the vendor portal by uploading each Helm chart as a `.tgz` file. This allows you to use Replicated to distribute applications that are packaged in part or in whole with Helm. The procedures in this topic apply to native Helm installations (recommended) and Replicated Helm installations. For more information, see [About Deploying with Helm](helm-overview).
```

> When you add a Helm chart to a release, Replicated adds a copy of the `Chart.yaml` file and the `values.yaml` file from the Helm chart to the release. 

Reviewer 2: We don't really _add copies_ of the `Chart.yaml` file and the `values.yaml` file, but rather _display copies_.  I'm assuming it's for reference purposes to help the vendor fill out the HelmChart custom resource.

> You must also have a HelmChart custom resource manifest file for each Helm chart that you add to a release. By default, Replicated adds the HelmChart custom resource for you, which you use to configure the Helm chart with your application.

Author: Yes and yes, incorporated both of your suggestions. (Added them manually.)

![Postgres Helm Chart](/images/postgres-helm-chart.png)

[View a larger image](/images/postgres-helm-chart.png)

> ## About Updating Existing Applications

Reviewer 3: Similar to the note above that I commented on, I love that you added this description.

This heading was a little confusing for me; it sounded like it might be about an end user updating a helm app, or that there are special steps you have to take as a vendor to make changes to an app that uses helm charts. The content doesn't really mention updating an app, per se

What do you think about something like "About Updating Replicated Helm Releases" or "About Adding New Charts to Releases"?

Alternatively, I also noticed that this content is similar to existing Limitations about native Helm: https://docs.replicated.com/vendor/helm-overview#replicated-helm-limitations. It also looks similar to the note you added above: "Charts installed with Replicated Helm cannot be migrated to use native Helm. However, native Helm can always be used for charts that are newly added to a release, even if other charts in the release use Replicated Helm."

Specifically, "Only supported for new installations" and "Not supported on existing charts deployed on existing applications." Maybe this information would fit well as part of those limitations instead? As is, the limitations are super lightweight and don't give a lot of good info about what this means. Your description is so much better

TLDR; looks like there's an opportunity to condense info about migrating from Replicated Helm to native Helm under limitations perhaps

Author: Good idea about the heading, I changed it.

Re: the content overlap, that's definitely something I've been running into a lot with Helm. It's scattershot content and I've been condensing a lot of it. But now it's getting way beyond the scope of my SC. Also, with the changes coming from your PR, I think it's better to wait until it's all merged and then re-evaluate things. It just seems kinda weird that Helm is in two sections and we may want to reconsider that holistically. I'll open an SC for it, if there isn't one already.

1. Create a HelmChart custom resource manifest file in the same directory where you copied the `.tgz` file. Name the HelmChart manifest file `CHART_NAME.yaml`. For example, `postgresql.yaml`.

> 1. Copy and paste the following YAML into the HelmChart manifest. The `useHelmInstall` flag is set to `true`, specifying that the release uses the recommended native Helm installation. For more information, see [HelmChart](../reference/custom-resource-helmchart) in the _Custom Resources_ section.

Author: "native" should only be capitalized in headings and at the beginning of a sentence. Since the actual product name is Helm and native is a descriptor, not a proper noun, we need to go with lowercase in general. I'll do a search for non-compliant usage. Thanks for catching that and inquiring. If you disagree, let us know. :)
